In the last lecture we updated our header to only show relevant links,
now I want to add one new link or option to the header, a new list item where we can actually logout.
Here
for that, I'll add a button where I say logout,
we save this,
here we get the logout button.
Now let's quickly give this some styling at least, so I'll add a class, logout here and in my css code
down there for the logout class, I'll set the background color to transparent, set the border
to none, set the font to inherit the default font and the color to white and the cursor to pointer, with
these tiny changes in place,
it now looks like the other links, it doesn't get the hover effect, you could add this but I'll simply move on.
And now if I click logout, I do want to logout of course,
so first of all let's register a click listener with add click and I will execute the on logout method
here. For that, I'll add the methods property to my vue instance and add on logout here,
now here I want to dispatch an action which essentially clears my token and user ID.
So for that, I will add a mutation which I name clear auth data maybe, the name is up to you where I receive
the state and where I simply set state ID token equal to null and where I set state user ID equal to
null. And now with that, the other thing I want to do of course is commit this mutation from some action,
so I'll add a new action maybe right below login but the position doesn't matter where I get commit
extracted from this context object and where I simply commit my new mutation, clear auth data,
so that is what I pass as a string to commit in the logout action and that's all.
Now the only thing I have to do in the header component is on my on logout method,
I will reach out to my store to dispatch and dispatch logout and now we should be able to go back and
if I now reload,
sign in and then click logout,
it actually switches the header UI,
we can also inspect the state in our vue
dev tools and we see that the state was reset.
Now the last thing I'll do is I only want to show the logout button if we are authenticated, so I will
add the same check
as for the dashboard only if we are authenticated, this list items should be rendered. So with that, if we
go back to the app, by default we don't see it,
as soon as I do login though, we do see that dashboard and logout.
If I click logout here though, we stay on the dashboard,
so one additional improvement is to make sure we navigate away.
Well we can also do this in the store in the logout action, for this
all I need is access to the router and the router can be imported from this router file, just as the store
could be imported in the router,
we can import the router into the store. So import router from ./router and then we can use that
router here in the logout action to not only commit but also call router push to navigate away
or maybe better than push, replace to /signin, this will actually replace the current router with
that so that we can't go back.
Now with that, if I try this one more time and sign in and I click on dashboard and then logout,
we are back on sign in. And with that, we get a working logout functionality in the application too,
now one big flaw this app still has is that we can always logout if we reload
the app and that might not be the desired result because it means that the user loses his session so to
say whenever he leaves our app and comes back shortly after.
Additionally, our token which we get back from firebase is actually only valid for one hour,
we got no logic to automatically log the user out after one hour right now though.
So these are the next and last two things I want to add to this demo application.